Summary-

We wanted to look into different factors that may determine success in MLB. The first thing we looked at was if teams that spent more money on their players have better records. We did not find enough of a correlation for salary of every player on every team from years 2000-2015 to conclude that money spent on players contributes to the success of the team. The next question we wanted to look into was if there was a correlation between birth month and success as an MLB player? Based on the stats and analysis for every player from 1877-2015 we did there seems to be a slight correlation. If you look at the Number of awards versus the birth month of the players, there are two outliers for the highest and the lowest. The number of awards received by players born in November and April were significantly higher than awards received by players born in January and June. There were 684 awards received by players born in November and 654 awards received by players born in April. This led to digging a little deeper to discover the possible reason for why players born in those two months seem to be more successful in their MLB careers. We found a study that suggested children born in October and November performed better than other kids in terms of stamina and cardiovascular fitness. The suggested reasoning being that the mothers of babies born in these months have a greater exposure to Vitamin D which has been linked to utero health benefits. If we were to take this study to the next level of micro analyzing this is something we would look at. The next factor we wanted to assess was if handedness had any impact on the success of the players in MLB. Does the players dominant hand contribute to their success? Based on our finding’s handedness does not contribute to their success, however an interesting fact that came about was that according to neuroscience news, players who bat left but throw right-handed have an advantage and more successful career than players who bat and throw left-handed. Only 2% of the general population throws right-handed and bats with their left hand but 12% of MLB players throw right and bat left. We were not able to dive into the numbers for that but if we were to expand on this question that would be something to look into.   Overall, we found that statically speaking based on their win rate, hall of fame inductees and their number of world series wins, the Yankees are the most successful Franchise.
